Revise `view-timeline-axis` (#42116)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/view-timeline-axis/index.md

sidebar: cssref
---

The **`view-timeline-axis`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property is used to specify the scrollbar direction that will be used to provide the timeline for a [named view progress timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/timelines#named_view_progress_timeline) animation.

## Syntax

```css
/* Logical property values */
view-timeline-axis: block;
view-timeline-axis: inline;

/* Physical property values */
view-timeline-axis: y;
view-timeline-axis: x;

/* Global values */
view-timeline-axis: inherit;
view-timeline-axis: initial;
view-timeline-axis: revert;
view-timeline-axis: revert-layer;
view-timeline-axis: unset;
```

### Values

- `<axis>`

>   - : An {{ cssxref("axis") }} keyword value describing the direction, or axis, of the scrollport that controls the scroll-driven animation. The default value is `block`.

Reviewer: similar to what we added in `view()`:

```suggestion
  - : Specifies the scroll direction used by the view progress timeline. The value can be one of the {{cssxref("axis")}} keywords: `block`, `inline`, `x`, or `y`. The default value is `block`.
```

## Description

The `view-timeline-axis` property specifies the direction, or `<axis>`, of [named view progress timelines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_view_progress_timeline) derived from the element's box.

When applying CSS {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animations to elements using [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animations), by default, the animations progress based on the time-based default timeline. When setting the animation progress via a view progress timeline, `view-timeline-axis` specifies the direction (axis) that controls the timeline progression.

> When animating based on view progress timelines, progression of the animation along the timelines is based on visibility of the element, or _subject_. The `view-timeline-axis` property is set on the subject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `view-timeline-axis` property specifies the direction, or `<axis>`, of [named view progress timelines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines#named_view_progress_timeline) that are based on the element's box.

By default, CSS {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animations progress along the time-based default timeline. When you set the animation progress via a view progress timeline instead, `view-timeline-axis` specifies the direction that controls the timeline progression.

For view progress timelines, progression of the animation along the timelines is based on the visibility of the element, or _subject_. The `view-timeline-axis` property is set on the subject.
```

The subject must be nested inside a scrollable element. If the scrollable element does not overflow its container in the axis dimension or if the overflow is hidden or clipped, no scroll progress timeline will be created.

> The `view-timeline-axis`, along with the {{cssxref("view-timeline-inset")}} and {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} properties are components of the {{cssxref("view-timeline")}} shorthand property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `view-timeline-axis`, along with the {{cssxref("view-timeline-inset")}} and {{cssxref("view-timeline-name")}} properties, is a component of the {{cssxref("view-timeline")}} shorthand property.
```
